# 1.-Home

Welcome to the famapy wiki!

FaMaPy is a Python-based AAFM framework that takes into consideration previous AAFM tool designs and enables multi-solver and multi-metamodel support for the integration of AAFM tooling on the Python ecosystem.

The main features of the framework are:

* Easy to extend by enabling the creation of new plugins following a semi-automatic generator approach.
* Support multiple variability models. Currently, it provides support for cardinality-based feature models. However, it is easy to integrate others such as attributed feature models
* Support multiple solvers. Currently, it provides support for the PySAT metasolver, which enables more than ten different solvers.
* Support multiple operations. It is developed, having in mind multi-model operations such as those depicted by Familiar and single-model operations.

In this wiki you'll find the documentation of this project.

{% content-ref url="2.-Installation.md" %}
[2.-Installation.md](2.-Installation.md)
{% endcontent-ref %}

{% content-ref url="3.-Usage.md" %}
[3.-Usage.md](3.-Usage.md)
{% endcontent-ref %}

{% content-ref url="4.-Development.md" %}
[4.-Development.md](4.-Development.md)
{% endcontent-ref %}

### Available plugins and related projects

[famapy-fm](https://github.com/diverso-lab/fm\_metamodel) [famapy-sat](https://github.com/diverso-lab/pysat\_metamodel)

### Changelog

Detailed changes for each release are documented in the [release notes](https://github.com/diverso-lab/core/releases)

### Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/diverso-lab/core/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
