## Usage
To use famapy, any user can assume different roles. In this wiki page, we organize the content by the two main roles.
### Installation

For installation, follow [Installation guide](2.-Installation)

## As an end user
As an end user you might be interested on executing your analysis either from the command line or from your python script.

### From the command line. 
The execution from the command line is relying on the hug python module. So we will need to install it. 

```
pip install hug
```

After hug is installed we have to clone famapy core source code:

```
git clone https://github.com/diverso-lab/core
```

Then we can run this command:

```
hug -f core/famapy/endpoint/diverso-lab.py -c use_operation_from_file Valid <path to the serialization of the feature model e.g. test.xml>
```
### From a user python script.
To execute a simple operation in our script we should import the module and simply call the operation. For example

```
from famapy.core.discover import DiscoverMetamodels # This loads the tool in the python execution environment
dm = DiscoverMetamodels() # Instantiate the class
result = dm.use_operation_from_file(operation, filename) # This launch the operation and stores the result on the result variable
```
Then you can printout the result or perform any other operation on it. 

## As a developer

As a developer you might be interested on using a rest api to consume or analyze your feature models. For that, make sure that you have installed the plugins using pip and simple start a REST API SERVER as showin in the following instructions. 

### Command line CLI and HTTP API

With the hug python library, we have created two different endpoints:

* Command line CLI
* HTTP API

For execute the command line:

```
hug -f famapy/endpoint/diverso-lab.py -c help
# Example
hug -f famapy/endpoint/diverso-lab.py -c get_plugins
hug -f famapy/endpoint/diverso-lab.py -c get_operations_name_by_plugin fm_metamodel
hug -f famapy/endpoint/diverso-lab.py -c use_operation_from_file Valid test.xml
```

For execute the HTTP API:

```
hug -f famapy/endpoint/diverso-lab.py  # mount the endpoint in port 8000
# Doc: hug generate doc in json when you access to no exist endpoint
http://localhost:8000/example/
# Example
http://localhost:8000/v1/get-plugins/
http://localhost:8000/v1/get-operations/pysat_metamodel/
http://localhost:8000/v1/use-operation-from-file/Valid/test.xml
```

Extra: If you want expose your api at the world, you can use ngrok (https://ngrok.com/):

```
ngrok http 8000
```

### Manual operations and transformations from installed plugins

FaMaPy provides a discover to facilitate the operations with the installed plugins

IMPORTANT NOTE: this repository wont not work without metamodels, you need to install some metamodels

## Operation usage

As we have seen before, discover module allows us to use a set of functions. "use_operation_from_file" is the main function, which will allow us to run operations for any model stored in a file.

Any operation listed by get_operations_name_by_plugin is a usable operation. Most operations require just the operation name and the file containing the mode. However, some operations require extra parameters. Here we will see how to use such operations:

### CSV inputs

The following operations will receive additional input from a csv file located in the same path than the model. Every operation will require a differently named csv file, and every file will require a distinct format.

**Valid operation:** "valid_operation.csv". Just one column, with every row being a feature included in the product. Example:
```
OLED
4GB
5G
```


**Valid configuration:** "valid_configuration.csv". Every row contains two columns, first column contains selected features, second specifies if we want them to be True or False. Example:
```
OLED, True
4GB, True
5G, False
```

**Filter:** "filter.csv". Every row contains two columns, first column contains selected features, second specifies if we want them to be True or False. Example:
```
OLED, True
4GB, True
5G, False
```

**Commonality:** "commonality.csv". Must contain just the name of the feature we want to know it's commonality. Example:
```
OLED
```

